The Joe Rogan experience. Why China?
Because they have this incredibly large population, 2 billion,
they've got this food supply that is largely wildlife that comes into these
markets where there's this incredible contact between people and these animals
and the crowded nature of that. I mean,
I think one of the things that surprises people when they go to China,
15 million population cities are common over there. I mean,
we think of the United States, we think of LA and New York, and that's big.
Okay. Over there. I mean, in Wuhan, a city of 15 million,
the entire metropolitan area is 60 million.
And so you have people crowded.
It's so closely together that if you add in the bugs,
coming from these animals and then the potential for this kind of,
of contact where it spreads quickly, China's been a, a, a, you know,
a bacteri and viral soup vessel for a long time. That's again,
why we have to protect ourselves here because a,
a bug anywhere in the world today can be a bug everywhere tomorrow.
Everywhere. And particularly when you're dealing with a massive number,
like these kind of cities. Yeah. So these wet, they call 'em wet markets.
Is that what they're wet markets? Yep. So that's what it is. A lot of it.
Is wildlife. Oh, it's incredible. You know, you know, I've hunted my life,
you know, I've always, I, I love to fly fish. I, I love the outdoors. Okay.
I could never have imagined the animals. You know,
I've spent time in these markets. Uh, I remember one day, uh, spending a,
a day in the Bangkok tank, Thailand market.
And it was about a mile by a mile and a half wild, big, I mean,
and these tight aisles, every animal imaginable to humans. And I swear to God,
there were some out of the movies I think that were in there.
And they're all just right on top of each other.
And I actually have a picture that I show in some of my lectures,
there was a situation where there was all these chickens in a cage.
I know 15 or 20 of 'em. Okay. And a big wire cage.
And it's sat on top of a wire cage full of ferrets.
And ferrets are actually an animal model from flu standpoint that they do really
well infected with flu viruses.
If you wanted to create the perfect experiment that no, no university, you know,
research group would let you do is you'd put birds and Ferres like that
together. And that's just common. That's just common. That's common.
And so birds and ferrets together, the it's something that's infecting.
The birds could jump to the ferrets.
Farts could breathe it out and we could get a infected oh Christ.
And so these markets and, and the, I, I don't know what's gonna happen here,
but for the first time we really saw the Chinese after this outbreak in Wuhan,
really start to put down some markers on what they're gonna do to supervise
these markets. I mean, they still have to eat,
but I think this is a dangerous practice where we see it. But, you know,
it happens in, look at Africa with Ebola, right. You know,
Bush meat is still very important and there's so much of the world that that's
their primary food.
Supply. And when they say Bush meat, it's basically.
Everything. Everything from bats, we think bat was the, uh,
the primary source of this outbreak in west Africa was, uh,
a human bat that was consumed to eat 'em all the time. Do they really? Yeah.
Yeah. So, you know, and some of 'em are pretty big bats, you know, they're,
they're literally three feet wingspans. They're, they're big. And so, um,
you know, that's one of the challenges we have with, with China.
We know that this is gonna happen. It's gonna occur.
We think of the flu viruses the same way. And, uh,
that's how we knew doing better flu vaccines. You know,
this could just as easily be a flu pandemic, the same thing, like 1918.
So these wet markets,
they just have all these animals hanging out and some of 'em are still
alive. Is that what.
It is? Many of 'em are alive. And then they'll, they'll actually, uh,
prepare 'em for you right there. They,
they basically kill him and got 'em and so forth. You got some pictures up.
Bizarre Wuhan west. There you go.
Market menu shows over a hundred wild animals sold as food linked
with virus. Unclear. Exactly. So it looks like in here, I'll show you the list.
You can. It, it's pretty amazing.
Yeah. Let's see some images. Woo. Well, look at that rip. Look at that list.
I know peacocks. Yeah. People are eating peacock. Oh yeah, absolutely.
Deer crocodiles, Turkey, swans, eating swans. How dare you. Kangaroos squirrels.
Snails, foxes.
Foxes and civic. Cats were the cause of the SARS.
Outbreak. Yeah. OSTs I've had that pre delicious. Yep. I'm a hypocrite.
Look at me eating otros Santa P geese. Hedgehogs. Goats.
Jesus.
So.
Yeah. It's, that's a pheasant, right? That's normal. Yeah.
It's just a picture of it. So do we have a video of the market?
I wanna see what, whoa, look at that. Freaky looking Saland,
look the size of that sucker big. That's a huge Saland.
I went lights for you first. The pictures. I was fine. Uh, dark.
Yeah. Yeah. Come on. What do you got? Cages of turtles and cages of bunnies.
Let's stuff like let's see it. Uh, bam. Wow. This wet market is very,
very strange. So, and these are enormous markets, right? Oh, they're huge.
They're huge. And the number of people in them is incredible. I mean.
They're getting the, from, they're getting 'em from the wire rural area.
From rural areas. Yeah.
Yeah. And are they growing these things and, and farming them or are.
They just some cases? Both. Some cases,
both like a lot of the seafood today is actually being farmed.
So this is really like a giant Petri dish. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean it's wow. Fish. You're looking, the fish looks not. Yep.
Not that fresh. Whoa. What's all that stuff. Rabbits and rabbits.
I couldn't tell you where all they at.
But Jesus.
But you're getting an idea. Explain 'em on the ground.
Of why, you know, if we can't stop that we surely can try,
but if we can't stop it,
we need to stop the infectious diseases coming from those animals to us.
Look at 'em all wearing masks. That's hilarious.
That was, I think with the, uh,
outbreak was that that might have been since the, those.
Those gigantic things a Malus what is that? What are those things?
I can't tell those look like giant Malus that's like flat. Yeah, they are right.
Can't tell the difference. No, because look at the ones behind,
I think you're right. You're right. They like huge muscles.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> wow. Look at those suckers behind them. Wow.
Yeah. There's a lot of people in China, they gotta eat.
That's where it gets weird. Right. It's like,
how do you tell them that they've been doing,
they've been doing this for who knows? How long,
how do you tell them to stop doing it? Or is, is that an impossible?
And is it more possible to just accelerate our vaccine program and
try to preemptively create something to, to address coronaviruses yeah.
To address various, various different.